

My collegue Giacomo already present three possible solution to the ramnsonware problem whose aim was to basically improve organizational culture by enlarging and sharing a common cyber-culture background. Now we want to take a step forward in order to find another possible solution to make this orgranization safer and we ask ourselves if an improved organizational culture doesn't need to reflect on a modification of the organizational structure. So basically we want to analyse if there is a relationship between culture and structure and if there is a relationship, how we can adapt the structure in order to create a common cyber-culture. 
On one hand we know the culture can be summarized in three words that are Values, Beliefs and Attitudes. On the other hand the structure is based on units, positions and links between the people in the organization. But where is the correlation? This two aspect are strictly correlated because they are focused on the people working in the organization, what are their roles in the organization, what are their responsabiities,what is the chain of command but even what are their attitude during the work, what is their personal backgound. So this relationship is usefull for our analysis because in order to allow the company to build a strong and common cyber-culture seems clear that a proper structure is necessary.

The red blocks are the part of the organization regarding cybersecurity. As we can see they put the cybersecurity department on one side of the organizazional chart, as if this aspect was an autonomus department that doesn't intefere with the other. That is wrong for us because we think that cybersecurity must involve all of the company by being integrated in each one of the department. So , thanks to the previous analysis we can say this: Adopt the solution that my collegues explained before has the effect of improving the organizational cyber-culture by changing the attitudes and we can adapt the structure to this aim in order to create a safer organizazion.  
As we can see we modify the organizatonal chart by putting a security and data protection block in each one of the preexisting departments of this organization. The result of this solution is that the Port of Lisbon could build a common cyberculture and gain the goal of becoming a safer organization.

 